The "Token0"-triangle group or "Token3"-triangle group is defined as the triangle group with parameters "Token0".
The "Token0"-von Dyck group, also sometimes termed the "Token3"-von Dyck group, is defined as the von Dyck group with parameters "Token0".
A subgroup "Token3" of a group "Token0" is termed a "Token6"-'''automorphism-invariant''' subgroup if any defining ingredient::1-automorphism of a group|1-automorphism of "Token0" sends "Token3" to itself.
A subgroup of a group is said to be '''1-completed''' if there is a single element outside the subgroup such that that element, along with the subgroup, generates the whole group.
A subgroup "Token2" of a group "Token0" is termed '''1-endomorphism-invariant''' if, given any defining ingredient::1-endomorphism "Token1" of "Token0", "Token3".
Suppose "Token0" and "Token1" are groups.
A group "Token0" is termed a '''2-divisible group''' if it is a divisible group for a set of primes|divisible group for the prime 2.{| class="sortable" border="1"!
A group is said to be '''2-generated''' or is called a '''2-generator group''' if it has a generating set comprising at most two elements.
A subgroup of a group is termed '''2-hypernormalized''' if its normalizer is a normal subgroup.
A '''group''' "Token0" is termed a '''2-locally finite group''' if, given any two elements "Token2", the subgroup "Token1" is a defining ingredient::finite group.{| class="sortable" border="1"!
A group is termed a '''2-powered group''' if it is defining ingredient::powered group for a set of primes|powered over the prime 2, i.e., the square map is bijective from the group to itself, or equivalently, every element has a unique square root.
A subring of a Lie ring is termed a '''2-sub-ideal''' if it is an ideal of a Lie ring|ideal of an ideal of the Lie ring.{{further|2-sub-ideal of a Lie algebra}}A 2-sub-ideal of a Lie algebra is a 2-sub-ideal of a Lie ring that is also a linear subspace.
{{quick phrase|normal inside normal closure, every conjugate is in its normalizer, normal closure is in normalizer, normal subgroup of normal subgroup, subgroup of subnormal defect at most two}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
A group is termed a '''2-torsion-free group''' if it is torsion-free group for a set of primes|torsion-free for the prime number 2.
A group is termed a '''3-Engel group''' or '''group of Levi class two''' if it satisfies the following equivalent conditions: For all "Token3", we have that "Token1" is the identity element of "Token0" where "Token2" denotes the group commutator.
A group is termed '''3-abelian''' if it is n-abelian group|n-abelian for "Token0", i.e., the cube map is an endomorphism of the group.
A group is termed a '''3-locally nilpotent group''' if, for any subset of size at most three in the group, the subgroup generated by a subset|subgroup generated by the subset is a defining ingredient::nilpotent group.{| class="sortable" border="1"!
Suppose "Token0" is a finite group and "Token2" is a prime number.
A '''3-transposition group''' is defined as a group that is either trivial group|trivial or has a generating set that is a ''single'' conjugacy class whose elements are defining ingredient::3-transpositions, i.e., involutions such that the product of any of them with any conjugate has order 1, 2, or 3.3-transposition groups were studied by Fischer.
A subgroup of a group is termed a '''4-subnormal subgroup''' if it satisfies the following equivalent conditions:
A finite group is termed an '''A-group''' if every Sylow subgroup of it is Abelian.
A group property is termed '''ACU-closed''' if, whenever there is an ascending chain of subgroups in a group, each having the group property, the union of those subgroups also has the property.
A subgroup property is termed '''ACU-closed''' (or closed under ''ascending chain unions'') if given any ascending chain of subgroups, each of which has the property, the union of those subgroups also has the property.
A subgroup of a group is termed an '''AEP-subgroup''' or '''Automorphism Extension Property subgroup''' if any automorphism of the subgroup extends to an automorphism of the whole group.
Let "Token5
An APS of groups is an APS over the category of groups.
A subgroup of a group is an '''abelian direct factor''' or '''central direct factor''' or '''complemented central subgroup''' if it satisfies the following conditions: It is abelian group|abelian as a group and is a direct factor of the whole group.
An '''abelian group''' is a group where any two elements commute.
A subgroup "Token2" of a group "Token0" is termed an '''abelian hereditarily normal subgroup''' or '''abelian transitively normal subgroup''' of "Token0" if it satisfies the following equivalent conditions: "Token2" is abelian group|abelian as a group and is a hereditarily normal subgroup of "Token0". "
A subgroup of a group is termed an '''abelian normal subgroup''' if it is abelian group|abelian as a group and normal subgroup|normal as a subgroup.{{group-subgroup property conjunction see examples|normal subgroup|abelian group}}
A subgroup "Token1" of a group of prime power order "Token0" is termed an '''abelian normal subgroup of maximum order''' if it is an abelian normal subgroup (specifically, an abelian normal subgroup of group of prime power order) and there is no abelian normal subgroup of "Token0" of larger order than "Token1".
A subgroup of a group is termed an '''abelian subgroup''' if it is defining ingredient::abelian group|abelian as a group.
Let "Token0" be a group of prime power order, i.e., a finite "Token1"-group for some prime "Token1".
Suppose "Token0" is a group of prime power order, i.e., "Token0" is a finite p-group for some prime number "Token2".
Suppose "Token0" is a group of prime power order.
A subgroup of a group is termed '''Abelian-completed''' if there is an Abelian group|Abelian subgroup such that their product is the whole group.
An automorphism of an abelian group is termed '''abelian-extensible''' if it can be extended to an automorphism for any embedding of the group in an abelian group.
Suppose "Token0" is an abelian group and "Token1" is a subgroup of "Token0".
An endomorphism "Token2" of an abelian group "Token0" is termed '''abelian-extensible''' if, for any group "Token1" containing "Token0", there exists an endomorphism "Token3" of "Token1" whose restriction to "Token0" is "Token2".
A subgroup "Token1" of an abelian group "Token0" is termed an '''abelian-extensible endomorphism-invariant subgroup''' if it is invariant under all the defining ingredient::abelian-extensible endomorphisms of "Token0".{{frexp}}{| class="wikitable" border="1"!
A subgroup "Token2" of an abelian group "Token0" is termed an '''abelian-potentially characteristic subgroup''' if there exists an abelian group "Token1" containing "Token0" such that "Token2" is a characteristic subgroup of "Token1".{| class="wikitable" border="1"! property !!
A subgroup "Token2" of an abelian group "Token0" is an '''abelian-potentially verbal subgroup''' if there exists an abelian group "Token1" containing "Token0" such that "Token2" is a verbal subgroup of "Token1".{| class="wikitable" border="1"!
A subgroup "Token1" of an abelian group "Token0" is termed an '''abelian-quotient-pullbackable automorphism-invariant subgroup''' if, for every defining ingredient::abelian-quotient-pullbackable automorphism "Token2" of "Token0", "Token2" restricts to an automorphism of "Token1".{{frexp}}{| class="wikitable" border="1"!
A subgroup "Token6" of a group "Token0" is termed '''abnormal''' if it satisfies the following equivalent conditions:* (''Right action convention''):
Suppose "Token1" are groups.
A p-group "Token0" is termed an '''absolutely regular p-group''' if "Token3", where "Token2" denotes the agemo subgroups of a group of prime power order|first agemo subgroup of "Token0",
A group is said to be '''absolutely simple''' if it has no proper nontrivial serial subgroup.
A subgroup "Token2" of a group "Token0" is termed '''action-isomorph-free''' in "Token0" if "Token2" is a normal subgroup of "Token0", and the following condition holds.
Let "Token4" be an associative algebra over a field "Token10" with the property that for any "Token11", there exists "Token3" such that "Token13".
An automorphism of a group is said to be '''algebraic''' if given any element of the group, the smallest subgroup containing that element which is invariant under the automorphism, is finitely generated group|finitely generated.
A subgroup of a group is termed an '''algebraic subgroup''' if it is an defining ingredient::algebraic subset of the group, i.e., it is an intersection of finite unions of defining ingredient::elementary algebraic subsets.{| class="sortable" border="1"!
A group is termed '''algebraically closed''' if every finite set of equations and inequations in the group that is consistent (i.e., the system has a solution in some bigger group containing the group) has a solution in the group itself.{{group property}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
A subgroup of a group is said to be '''almost normal''' if it satisfies the following equivalent conditions: Its defining ingredient::normalizer has finite defining ingredient::index of a subgroup|index in the whole group.
A group is termed an '''almost quasisimple group''' if it has a self-centralizing normal subgroup that is a quasisimple group.
A group is said to be '''almost simple''' if it satisfies the following equivalent conditions:* There is a simple non-abelian group such that the given group can be embedded between the simple group and its automorphism group.
A subgroup "Token3" of a group "Token0" is termed an '''almost subnormal subgroup''' (or sometimes '''f-subnormal subgroup''') of "Token0" if there exists a chain "Token5", such that for "Token2", "Token1" is either a defining ingredient::normal subgroup or a defining ingredient::subgroup of finite index in "Token4".{| class="sortable" border="1"!
Suppose "Token0" is a group and "Token1" is a subgroup of "Token0".
A subgroup "Token1" of a group "Token0" is termed an '''amalgam-normal-subhomomorph-containing subgroup''' if the amalgamated subgroup "Token1" is a normal-subhomomorph-containing subgroup in the amalgamated free product "Token2".{{obtainedbyapplyingthe|in-amalgam operator|normal-subhomomorph-containing subgroup}}
A subgroup "Token1" of a group "Token0" is termed '''amalgam-strictly characteristic''' if the amalgamated subgroup "Token1" is a strictly characteristic subgroup in the amalgamated free product "Token2".{{obtainedbyapplyingthe|in-amalgam operator|strictly characteristic subgroup}}
A subgroup "Token4" of a group "Token0" is termed an '''amalgamated free factor''' if either
The group is defined as the amalgamated free product "Token1", i.e., we take two copies of the group of integers, take their free product, and then take the quotient group by the identification of the subgroup "Token4".The group can be defined by the presentation of a group|presentation:"Token0"{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the amalgamated free product "Token0" where "Token2" is the group of rational numbers and "Token1" is the group of integers, viewed naturally as a subgroup of the group of rational numbers.
A group is said to be '''ambivalent''' if every element in it is defining ingredient::conjugate elements|conjugate to its inverse.
A discrete group "Token0" is termed an '''amenable discrete group''' if there exists a function that assigns to each subset of "Token0" a real number in "Token3" such that:
Let "Token0" be a group and "Token4" be an element.
A group is said to be '''Artinian''' or to satisfy the '''minimum condition''' on subgroups if every descending chain of subgroups stabilizes after a finite stage.
A subgroup "Token10" of a group "Token0" is termed '''ascendant''' if we have subgroups "Token9
Let "Token0" be a group and consider:"Token2"a subnormal series for "Token0".
A subgroup "Token4" of a group "Token0" is termed an '''asymptotically fixed-depth join-transitively subnormal subgroup''' if there exists a natural number "Token6" such that for any "Token3", and any "Token5"-subnormal subgroup "Token2" of "Token0", the join of subgroups|join "Token1" is also a "Token5"-subnormal subgroup of "Token0".
A subgroup property "Token4" is termed an '''auto-invariance property''' if there is a group-closed automorphism property "Token3" such that for any subgroup "Token1", "Token5
A subgroup "Token7" of a group "Token0" is termed an '''autoclinism-invariant subgroup''' if it is invariant under any bijective set map "Token2" satisfying all three of these conditions:
An '''automatic group''' is a finitely generated group satisfying the following equivalent conditions: There exists a finite generating set with respect to which the group possesses an defining ingredient::automatic structure.
A subgroup of a group is termed an '''automorph-commensurable subgroup''' if it is defining ingredient::commensurable subgroups|commensurable with all its defining ingredient::automorphic subgroups.
There is no standard name for this property, but both '''automorph-conjugate''' and '''intravariant''' have been used.{| class="sortable" border="1"!
A subgroup "Token5" of a group "Token0" is termed an '''automorph-dominating subgroup''' if it satisfies the following equivalent conditions: For any automorphism "Token3" of "Token0", there exists "Token7" such that the automorphic subgroups|automorph "Token2" is contained in the conjugate subgroups|conjugate subgroup "Token8".
A subgroup of a group is termed '''automorph-join-closed subnormal''' if the join of any collection of subgroups that are automorphic subgroups|automorphic to it (i.e., its images under automorphisms of the whole group) is a subnormal subgroup.
A subgroup of a group is termed '''automorph-permutable''' if it permuting subgroups|permutes with any subgroup obtained as the image of it under an automorphism of the whole group.
Two subgroups of a group are '''automorphs''' or '''automorphic subgroups''' if there is an automorphism of the whole group that maps one of the subgroups isomorphically to the other one.
A subgroup "Token4" of a group "Token0" is termed '''automorphically endomorph-dominating''' if, for any endomorphism "Token1" of "Token0", there exists an automorphism "Token3" of "Token0" such that "Token2".{| class="sortable" border="1"!
The '''automorphism group''' of a group is defined as a group whose elements are all the automorphism of a group|automorphisms of the base group, and where the group operation is composition of automorphisms.
This group is defined in the following equivalent ways: It is the defining ingredient::automorphism group of defining ingredient::alternating group:A6.
This group is defined as the automorphism group of free group:F2 -- the free group of rank two.{{under development but get information from|automorphism group of a finitely generated free group}}
An '''automorphism''' of a group is any of the following equivalent things:
Suppose "Token0" is a group and "Token3" is an automorphism of "Token0".We say that "Token3" is an '''automorphism that preserves conjugacy classes for a generating set''' if the folllowing equivalent conditions hold:
A subgroup "Token1" of a group "Token0" is termed an '''automorphism-faithful AEP-subgroup''' if for every automorphism of "Token1", there is a ''unique'' automorphism of "Token0" whose restriction to "Token1" is that particular automorphism.
A subgroup of a group is termed an '''automorphism-faithful normal subgroup''' if it is both an automorphism-faithful subgroup and a normal subgroup of the whole group.
A subgroup of a group is termed '''automorphism-faithful''' if any nontrivial automorphism of the whole group that restricts to an automorphism of the subgroup, in fact restricts to a ''nontriival'' automorphism of the subgroup.
A group is termed a '''BFC-group''' if there is a finite constant "Token5" such that no element in the group has more than "Token5
Let "Token0" be a group.
The '''baby monster group''', denoted ''B'', is one of the 26 sporadic simple groups that occurs in the classification of finite simple groups.
A '''Baer Lie group''' is a group "Token0" satisfying the following two conditions: It is a defining ingredient::nilpotent group of defining ingredient::group of nilpotency class two|class two, i.e., its defining ingredient::nilpotency class is at most two.
A '''Baer Lie ring''' is a Lie ring "Token4" satisfying the following two conditions: "Token4" is a nilpotent Lie ring and has nilpotency class of a Lie ring|nilpotency class at most two.
A '''Baer Malcev ring''' is a Malcev ring "Token2" with muliplication "Token1"satisfying the following two conditions: The subring generated by any subset of size at most two has nilpotency class at most two, i.e., "Token0" for all "Token3" living in a subring generated by a subset of size at mots two.
An alternating loop ring "Token0" with multiplication "Token1" is termed a '''Baer alternating loop ring''' if it satisfies the following two conditions: The subring generated by any two elements is a 2-Engel Lie ring: addition forms a group, and any triple product is zero.
A '''Baer diassociative loop''' is a diassociative loop "Token2" satisfying the following two conditions:
A group "Token0" is termed a '''Baer group''' if it satisfies the following equivalent conditions: Every cyclic group|cyclic subgroup of "Token0" is a subnormal subgroup of "Token0".
The '''Baer norm''' of a group is defined in the following equivalent ways:
The '''Baer-Specker group''' is defined as the external direct product of countably many copies of the group of integers.{| class="wikitable" border="1"!
A finite group is said to be '''balanced''' if the Brauer core of the centralizer of any involution is contained in the Brauer core of the whole group.
A subgroup property is said to be a '''balanced subgroup property''' if it can be expressed via a function restriction expression with both the ''left side'' and the ''right side'' being equal.
We need to have two inputs with respect to which we can talk of balanced subgroup property:
The '''base diagonal of a wreath product''' is the subgroup comprising those members of the base power where all coordinates are equal.
A subgroup "Token0" of a group "Token1" is termed a '''base of a wreath product''' if "Token1" is expressible as an defining ingredient::internal wreath product of "Token0" by some subgroup "Token2".
A subgroup "Token0" of a group "Token2" is termed a '''base of a wreath product with diagonal action''' if "Token2" can be expressed as an internal wreath product with diagonal action with "Token0" as base.
The term '''basic Lie product''' is used in the following context.
This group is defined as the Baumslag-Solitar group with parameters 1 and 2, i.e., the group "Token4".
An '''automatic group''' is a finitely generated group satisfying the following equivalent conditions: There exists a finite generating set with respect to which the group possesses a defining ingredient::biautomatic structure.
The '''binary octahedral group''' can be defined in the following equivalent ways: It is the defining ingredient::Schur cover of symmetric group:S4 of type "-" which in symbols means it is the group "Token2".
A group "Token0" is termed a '''binate group''' if for every finitely generated subgroup "Token5
Suppose "Token12" is a non-associative ring and "Token6
A ''quantified word-letter pair'' is a word with a distinguished letter, with a sequence of (possibly nested) existential and universal quantifiers on all the other letters.
A group "Token0" is termed a "Token3"-'''Engel group''' if, for any "Token5", there exists "Token3" such that:"Token2"where the "Token1" occurs "Token3" times.
An IAPS of groups is termed a '''bounded-solvable IAPS''' if it satisfies the following equivalent conditions:
The '''Burnside group''' "
This group is defined as the Burnside group with 2 generators and exponent 4.
This group is the Burnside group with parameters 2,6.
This group is defined as the Burnside group with parameters 4,3.
A subgroup of a group is termed a '''c-closed normal subgroup''' if it is both a c-closed subgroup (it equals the centralizer of its centralizer) and a normal subgroup (it is invariant under inner automorphisms).
A subgroup of a group is termed a '''c-closed self-centralizing subgroup''' or a '''centralizer of Abelian subgroup''' if it satisfies the following equivalent conditions: Its defining ingredient::centralizer equals its center and it equals the centralizer of its center (all relative to the whole group).
A subgroup of a group is termed a '''c-closed subgroup''' if it satisfies the equivalent conditions:* It equals the centralizer of its centralizer.
A group is said to be a '''C-group''' if every subgroup in it is permutably complemented subgroup| permutably complemented.
A subgroup of a group is termed '''c-normal''' if there is a normal subgroup whose product with it is the whole group and whose intersection with it lies inside its normal core.
{{fillin}}* Normal subgroup* C-normal subgroup* ''
A group is termed a '''C1-group''' if every cyclic group|cyclic subgroup is self-conjugate-permutable subgroup|self-conjugate-permutable.
Below are listed some '''equivalent definitions''' of CA-group, also called '''centralizer is abelian''' group:{| class="sortable" border="1"!
A group is termed a '''CCP-group''' or a ''cyclic subgroups are conjugate-permutable'' group if every cyclic group|cyclic subgroup is conjugate-permutable subgroup|conjugate-permutable.
A subgroup "Token2" of a group "Token0" is termed a '''CDIN-subgroup''', or is said to be '''conjugacy-determined in normalizer''', if "Token2" is a defining ingredient::conjugacy-determined subgroup in its defining ingredient::normalizer of a subgroup|normalizer "Token1" relative to "Token0".
A subgroup of a group is termed a '''CEP subgroup''' (or a group with '''Congruence Extension Property''') if any normal subgroup of this subgroup is the intersection of this subgroup with a normal subgroup of the whole group.
A group is said to be a '''CIA-group''' if it can be expressed as a finite union of isomorphic Abelian groups (CIA stands for ''covered by isomorphism Abelian'').
Below are listed some '''equivalent definitions''' of CN-group, also called '''centralizer is nilpotent''' group:{| class="sortable" border="1"!
A '''CS-Baer Lie group''' is a group "Token0" satisfying '''both''' the following two conditions: "Token0" is a defining ingredient::group of nilpotency class two, i.e., its nilpotency class is at most two.
An automorphism of a group is termed '''CS-extensible''' if it can be extended to an inner automorphism for every embedding of the group into the automorphism group of a characteristically simple group.
Let "Token0" be a group and "Token4" an automorphism of "Token0". "
A group is said to be '''CSCFN-realizable''' if it can be realized as a CSCFN-subgroup of some group.
A group is termed a '''Camina group''' if every coset of the defining ingredient::derived subgroup other than the commutator subgroup itself, forms exactly one defining ingredient::conjugacy class.
A Lie ring is termed a '''canonically Lazard-dividable Lie ring''' if there exists a Lazard-divided Lie ring structure with the Lie ring as underlying Lie ring, such that all the Lazard division operations are invariant under all automorphisms of the Lie ring.
A Lazard-divided Lie ring is termed a '''canonically Lazard-divided Lie ring''' if all the Lazard division operations are invariant under all the automorphisms of the underlying Lie ring.
A group "Token0" is said to be '''capable''' if it satisfies the following equivalent conditions: It is isomorphic to the defining ingredient::inner automorphism group of some group.
A subgroup of a group is termed a '''Carter subgroup''' if it is a self-normalizing subgroup|self-normalizing nilpotent group|nilpotent subgroup.
An element of a group is termed central if the following equivalent conditions hold: It commutes with every element of the group Its centralizer is the whole group It is the only element in its conjugacy class.
A subgroup "Token2" of a group "Token0" is termed a '''center of pronormal subgroup''' if there exists a defining ingredient::pronormal subgroup "Token1" of "Token0" such that "Token2" equals the defining ingredient::center of "Token1".{| class="sortable" border="1"!
An automorphism of a group is termed a '''center-fixing automorphism''' if it fixes every element of the center.
The following are equivalent definitions of center-fixing automorphism-balanced subgroup.{| class="sortable" border="1"!
A subgroup of a group is termed a '''center-fixing automorphism-invariant subgroup''' if every center-fixing automorphism of the whole group sends the subgroup to within itself.{| class="sortable" border="1"!
A group is said to be '''centerless''' if it satisfies the following equivalent conditions:* The center of the group is trivial group|trivial.
A '''centerless group that is upward-closed normal in its automorphism group''' is defined as follows: it is a centerless group, and when it is embedded inside its automorphism group via the action by conjugation, every subgroup of the automorphism group containing it, is a normal subgroup of the automorphism group.
{{quick phrase|quick phrase::factor in central product, quick phrase::product with centralizer is whole group, quick phrase::quotient action by outer automorphisms is trivial, quick phrase::every inner automorphism restricts to an inner automorphism}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
A subgroup of a group is termed a '''central factor of normalizer''' if it satisfies the following equivalent conditinos:
An automorphism of a group is termed '''central factor-extensible''' if, for every embedding of the group as a central factor of a group, the automorphism can be extended to an automorphism of the bigger group.
Let "Token0" be a group and "Token4" a prime.
This group is defined in the following equivalent ways: It is the central product of defining ingredient::dihedral group:
This group is defined in the following equivalent ways: It is the central product of defining ingredient::dihedral group:D8 and the defining ingredient::quaternion group over a commonly identified cyclic central subgroup cyclic group:Z2.
This group is defined in the following equivalent ways: It is the central product of defining ingredient::dihedral group:D8 and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z12 with a common cyclic central subgroup of order two.
This group can be defined in the following equivalent ways: It is the central product of defining ingredient::dihedral group:
This group of order 16 is defined in the following equivalent ways: It is the central product of the dihedral group:D8|dihedral group of order eight and cyclic group:Z4|cyclic group of order four over a common cyclic central subgroup of order two.
This group can be described as the defining ingredient::central product of defining ingredient::dihedral group:D8 and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z8 over a common cyclic central subgroup of order two.{{quotation|Get more information about other groups of the same order at Groups of order 32The list}}{| class="wikitable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the central product of the groups defining ingredient::M16 and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z8 over a common cyclic central subgroup cyclic group:Z2.
This group is defined as the central product of defining ingredient::special linear group:SL(2,3) and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z4 with a common central cyclic group:Z2 identified (i.e., center of special linear group:SL(2,3) is identified with Z2 in Z4).{{compare and contrast arithmetic functions|order = 48}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the central product of special linear group:SL(2,5) (order 120) and special linear group:SL(2,7) (order 336) where we perform the unique identification of the centers of these two groups with each other.{{compare and contrast arithmetic functions|order = 20160}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined in the following equivalent ways: It is the unique defining ingredient::subgroup of index
This group can be defined in the following equivalent ways: It is the central product of defining ingredient::prime-cube order group:U(3,3) (which is a non-abelian group of order 27 and exponent 3) and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z9, where they share a common central subgroup of order three.
This group is defined as an external central product of unitriangular matrix group:UT(3,Z) with the group of rational numbers "Token0", where we identify the full center of the first group with the subgroup "Token1" in the latter (see Z in Q).{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group can be defined in the following equivalent ways: It is the central product of unitriangular matrix group:UT(3,Z) and the group of integers "Token1" where the subgroup "Token2" of "Token1" is identified with the center of "Token0".
This group is defined in the following equivalent ways:
A subgroup of a group is termed a '''central subgroup''' if it satisfies the following equivalent conditions: It is a subgroup inside the center
A subgroup of a group is termed a '''centralizer of involution''' if it occurs as the centralizer (in the whole group) of some involution (an involution here is an element of order two).A subgroup "Token2" of a group "Token0" is termed a '''centralizer of involution''' if "Token1" for some "Token3"
A subgroup "Token4" of a group "Token0" is termed a '''centralizer-annihilating endomorphism-invariant subgroup''' of "Token0" if, for every centralizer-annihilating endomorphism "Token2" of "Token0", "Token3" is contained in "Token4".
A group is said to be '''centralizer-connected''' if the centralizer of any element is either the whole group or has infinite index in the group.
A subgroup of a group is termed '''centralizer-dense''' or '''c-dense''' if it satisfies the following equivalent conditions:* Its centralizer in the whole group equals the center of the group.
A subgroup of a group is termed a '''centralizer-free normal subgroup''' if it is both a centralizer-free subgroup of the whole group and a normal subgroup of the whole group.
A subgroup of a group is said to be '''centralizer-free''' if its centralizer within the whole group is trivial.
A subgroup of a group is termed '''centrally closed''' or a '''CC-subgroup''' if the centralizer of any non-identity element of the subgroup lies inside the subgroup.
A nontrivial group is said to be '''centrally indecomposable''' if it satisfies the following equivalent conditions: It cannot be expressed as the defining ingredient::central product of two proper subgroups.
Let "Token3" be a group of prime power order.
An automorphism "Token5" of a group "Token0" is termed '''chain-extensible''' if the following holds.
Two conjugacy classes in a group are said to be '''character-conjugate''' if for every finite-dimensional indecomposable linear representation (and hence any finite-dimensional linear representation) of the group, the value that the character of the representation takes on both the conjugacy classes is equal.
A subgroup "Token1" of a group "Token0" is termed a '''characteristic AEP-subgroup''' if the homomorphism:"Token2"that sends an automorphism of "Token0" to its restriction to "Token1" is well-defined (i.e., every automorphism of "Token0" does restrict to an automorphism of "Token1") and surjective (i.e., every automorphism of "Token1" arises as the restriction of an automorphism of "Token0").
A subgroup of a group is termed a '''characteristic central factor''' if it satisfies the following two conditions:
A subgroup "Token1" of a group "Token0" is termed a '''characteristic central subgroup''' if it satisfies '''both''' these conditions: "Token1" is a characteristic subgroup of "Token0". "
{{quick phrase|quick phrase::smallest characteristic subgroup containing, quick phrase::intersection of all characteristic subgroups containing, quick phrase::join of all automorphic subgroups}}The '''characteristic closure'''  of a subgroup in a group can be defined in any of the following equivalent ways:
{{quick phrase|largest characteristic subgroup inside, biggest characteristic subgroup inside, intersection of all automorphs}}The '''characteristic core''' of a subgroup is defined in the following equivalent ways: (''Characteristic subgroup definition''): As the subgroup generated by all defining ingredient::characteristic subgroups of the whole group lying inside the subgroup; in other words, as the unique largest characteristic subgroup of the whole group contained in the given group.
A subgroup of a group is termed a '''characteristic core of subgroup of finite index''' if it arises as the defining ingredient::characteristic core of a defining ingredient::subgroup of finite index in the whole group.{| class="sortable" border="1"!
A subgroup of a group is termed a '''characteristic direct factor''' if it is a characteristic subgroup as well as a direct factor.
A subgroup of a group of prime power order is termed a '''characteristic maximal subgroup of group of prime power order''' if it is a characteristic subgroup as well as a maximal subgroup (in particular, a maximal subgroup of group of prime power order).
{{quick phrase|quick phrase::invariant under all automorphisms, quick phrase::automorphism-invariant, quick phrase::strongly normal, quick phrase::normal under outer automorphisms}}Below are many '''equivalent''' definitions of characteristic subgroup.{| class="sortable" border="1"!
A subgroup "Token1" of a group "Token0" is termed a '''characteristic subgroup of center''' if "Token1" is a central subgroup of "Token0" and is a characteristic subgroup ''of'' the center of "Token0".{| class="sortable" border="1"!
A subgroup of a group is said to be a '''characteristic subgroup of direct factor''' if it occurs as a characteristic subgroup of a direct factor of the whole group.
A '''characteristic subgroup of finite index''' is a subgroup of a group that is a characteristic subgroup as well as a subgroup of finite index, i.e., the defining ingredient::index of a subgroup|index of the subgroup is finite, or equivalently, the quotient group is a finite group.{| class="sortable" border="1"!
A group property is termed '''characteristic subgroup-closed''' if whenever a group satisfies the property, so does every characteristic subgroup of that group.
A subgroup of a group is termed a '''characteristic transitively normal subgroup''' if it satisfies the following equivalent conditions: It is both a characteristic subgroup and a transitively normal subgroup.
An automorphism of a group is said to be '''characteristic-extensible''' if, for every embedding of the group as a characteristic subgroup of a bigger group, the automorphism can be extended to the bigger group.
A subgroup of a group is termed '''characteristic-isomorph-free''' if it is a characteristic subgroup and there is no characteristic subgroup of the whole group isomorphic to it.
A subgroup of a group is termed '''characteristic-potentially characteristic''' if there is an embedding of the bigger group in some group such that, in that embedding both the group and the subgroup become characteristic.
Let "Token4" be an automorphism of a group "Token0".
A subgroup "Token4" inside a group "Token0" is said to be characteristically DP-decomposable if we can express "Token0" as an internal direct product of subgroups "Token2" such that "Token4" is the internal direct product of all the "Token1", and further, each "Token3" is characteristic in "Token2".
A group "Token0" is termed a '''characteristically Hopfian group''' if there is no nontrivial characteristic subgroup "Token2" of "Token0" for which the quotient group "Token1" is isomorphic to "Token0".{{group property}}{{wikilocal}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
A subgroup of a group is termed a '''characteristically complemented characteristic subgroup''' if it is a defining ingredient::characteristic subgroup and it has a defining ingredient::permutable complements|permutable complement that is also a characteristic subgroup.
A subgroup of a group is termed a '''characteristically complemented normal subgroup''' or '''characteristically complemented direct factor''' if it is a direct factor in an internal direct product where the other direct factor is a characteristic subgroup.
A subgroup of a group is termed a '''characteristically complemented subgroup''' or '''characteristic retract''' if it satisfies the following equivalent conditions: There is a defining ingredient::retraction (viz an idempotent endomorphism) on the group, whose image is that subgroup, and whose kernel is a defining ingredient::characteristic subgroup.
A group is termed '''characteristically metacyclic''' if it has a fact about::cyclic characteristic subgroup such that the quotient group is also a cyclic group.
A group "Token0" is termed '''characteristically metacyclic''' if there exists a characteristic subgroup "Token2" of "Token0" such that both "Token2" and the quotient group (note that characteristic implies normal, so the quotient group does exist)
A group is termed '''characteristically polycyclic''' if there exists a characteristic series (i.e., a subgroup series where all the subgroups are characteristic subgroup|characteristic) of finite length for the group, such that all the factor groups are cyclic groups.
This group is defined as "Token1", the Chevalley group of type B and parameter value 3 for field:F3.
This group is denoted "Token7" and is defined in a number of equivalent ways.
A '''class two Lie cring''' is an abelian group "Token3" (denoted additively) equipped with an additional binary operation "Token4
A '''class two near-Lie cring''' is an abelian group "Token3" (denoted additively) equipped with an additional binary operation "Token4
An automorphism of a group is termed a '''class-inverting automorphism''' if it sends every element to an element that is in the conjugacy class of its inverse.
An defining ingredient::automorphism of a group is termed a '''class-preserving automorphism''' or '''class automorphism''' if it takes each element to within its defining ingredient::conjugacy class.
A field is termed '''class-separating''' for a group if it satisfies the following equivalent conditions: Given any two conjugacy classes in the group, there exists a finite-dimensional linear representation of the group over the field such that the images of the conjugacy classes, are not conjugate in the  general linear group.
{{quick phrase|quick phrase::normal closure is characteristic, quick phrase::join of all conjugates is characteristic}}A subgroup of a group
A subgroup of a group is termed a '''cocentral subgroup''' if it satisfies the following equivalent conditions: Its product with the center is the whole group.
A subgroup of a group is said to be a '''cocentral subgroup of normalizer'''  if it is a cocentral subgroup of its normalizer.
An automorphism "Token1" of a finite group "Token0" is termed a '''cofactorial automorphism''' for "Token0" if every prime dividing the order of an element|order of "Token1" (viewed as an element of the automorphism group of "Token0") also divides the order of a group|order of "Token0".An automorphism "Token1" of a periodic group "Token0" is termed a '''cofactorial automorphism''' for "Token0" if every prime dividing the order of "Token1" equals the order of some non-identity element of "Token0".If the group has any element of infinite order, then every automorphism of the group is considered to be a cofactorial automorphism.
A subgroup of a group is termed a '''cofactorial automorphism-invariant subgroup''' if it is invariant under all the defining ingredient::cofactorial automorphisms of the whole group.
Suppose "Token1" is a prime number and "Token5" is a collection of finite "Token1"-groups.
Suppose "Token14" is a finite collection of finite "Token18"-groups, group of prime power order|groups of prime power order for the prime "Token18".
Suppose "Token4" is a collection of finite "Token1"-groups, i.e., group of prime power order|groups of prime power order for a prime number "Token1".
Let "Token3" be a set and "Token2" be a binary operation on "Token3" (viz, "Token2" is a map "Token3" &times; "Token3" &rarr; "Token3".
A subgroup "Token3" of a group "Token0" is termed a '''commutator of a normal subgroup and a subset''' if there exists a defining ingredient::normal subgroup "Token2" of "Token0" and a subset "Token4" of "Token0" such that "Token3" is the defining ingredient::commutator of two subsets|commutator "Token1", i.e., the subgroup generated by a subset|subgroup generated by all the defining ingredient::commutators between elements of "Token2" and elements of "Token4".{| class="sortable" border="1"!
A subgroup property "Token3" is termed '''commutator-closed''' if the defining ingredient::commutator of two subgroups|commutator of any two subgroups, each of which has property "Token3" in the whole group, also has property "Token3" in the whole group.
A subgroup "Token4" of a group "Token0" is termed a '''commutator-in-center''' subgroup if it satisfies the following equivalent conditions: "Token3" where "Token5
A subgroup "Token3" of a group "Token0" is termed a '''commutator-in-centralizer subgroup''' if the commutator of two subgroups|commutator "Token4" is contained in the centralizer "Token1", or equivalently, "Token2" is trivial.,{| class="sortable" border="1"!
A group is termed '''commutator-realizable''' if it can be realized as the defining ingredient::commutator subgroup of some group.
A subgroup of a group is a '''commutator-verbal subgroup''' if there is a set of words, each having the format of a commutator involving its letters and their inverses, such that the subgroup is precisely the subgroup generated by all the elements of the group expressible using those words.
A subgroup of a group is termed a '''complemented central factor''' or '''split central factor''' if it satisfies the following equivalent conditions: It is a permutably complemented subgroup as well as a central factor of the whole group.
A subgroup of a group is termed a '''complemented characteristic subgroup''' if it satisfies the following equivalent conditions: It is a defining ingredient::characteristic subgroup as well as a defining ingredient::permutably complemented subgroup.
A subgroup of a group is termed a '''complemented fully invariant subgroup''' if it satisfies the following equivalent conditions: It is both a conjunction involving::permutably complemented subgroupdefining ingredient::permutably complemented subgroup|  and a fully invariant subgroup.
A subgroup of a group is termed a '''complemented homomorph-containing subgroup''' if it satisfies the following equivalent conditions: It is both a complemented normal subgroup and a homomorph-containing subgroup of the whole group.
A subgroup of a group is termed a '''complemented isomorph-containing subgroup''' if it satisfies the following equivalent conditions: It is both a conjunction involving::permutably complemented subgroupdefining ingredient::permutably complemented subgroup|  and an conjunction involving::isomorph-containing subgroupdefining ingredient::isomorph-containing subgroup| .
{| class="sortable" border="1"!
A subgroup of a group is termed a '''complemented transitively normal subgroup''' if it satisfies the following equivalent conditions:* It is a defining ingredient::permutably complemented subgroup as well as a defining ingredient::transitively normal subgroup.
A group is said to be '''complete''' if it satisfies the following equivalent conditions:* It is centerless group|centerless and every automorphism of it is inner automorphism|inner.
A '''complete map''' from a group "Token0" to itself is a bijection "Token3" such that the map "Token1" is also a bijection.
Suppose "Token0" is a group and "Token2" is a subgroup of "Token0".
Suppose "Token0" is a group.
Let "Token0" be a group and "Token2" and "Token1" be subgroups of "Token0".
A group is termed '''composition factor-permutable''' if it is of defining ingredient::group of finite composition length|finite composition length and, for every possible ordering of its composition factors, there exists a defining ingredient::composition series achieving that ordering of the composition factors.
A group is said to be '''composition factor-unique''' if the order in which its composition factors occur is the same for every composition series.
Given two subgroup properties "Token3" and "Token2", the composition operator applied to these properties, denoted as "Token1", is the property defined as follows: "Token6" has the property "Token1" as a subgroup of "Token0" if there is an intermediate subgroup "Token4
A group is said to be '''composition series-unique''' if it has a unique defining ingredient::composition series.
A subgroup of a group is termed a '''composition subgroup''' if there is a composition series starting at the subgroup and ending at the whole group.
A subgroup "Token2" of a group "Token0" is termed '''compressed''' if for any subgroup "Token1" of "Token0" containing "Token2", the rank of a group|rank of "Token2" is not more than the rank of "Token1".We typically study compressed subgroups inside a free group.
A '''Con-Cos group''' is a group "Token0" with a normal subgroup "Token1" satisfying the following two conditions:
A '''congruence on a group''' is an equivalence relation on the elements of the group that is compatible with all the group operations.
A '''conjugacy class''' in a group can be defined in any of the following ways:
Let "Token0" be a group and "Token2" a prime.
A subgroup of a group is termed a '''conjugacy-closed Hall subgroup''' if it satisfies the following conditions:* It is conjugacy-closed subgroup|conjugacy-closed: Any two elements of the subgroup that are conjugate in the whole group are conjugate in the subgroup.
A subgroup of a group is termed a '''conjugacy-closed characteristic subgroup''' if it is both a conjugacy-closed subgroup (i.e., any two elements of the subgroup that are conjugate in the whole group are conjugate in the subgroup) and a characteristic subgroup.
A subgroup of a group is termed '''conjugacy-closed normal''' if it satisfies the following equivalent conditions:
A subgroup of a group is termed '''conjugacy-closed''' if any two elements of the subgroup that are conjugate in the whole group are also conjugate in the subgroup.
Suppose "Token1" are groups.
A group is termed '''conjugacy-separable''' if it satisfies the following equivalent conditions: Every element in it is a defining ingredient::conjugacy-distinguished element.
A subgroup of a group is termed '''conjugate-commensurable''' if it is defining ingredient::commensurable subgroups|commensurable with each of its defining ingredient::conjugate subgroups.
A subgroup of a group is termed a '''conjugate-comparable subgroup''' if it is comparable with each of its defining ingredient::conjugate subgroups, in other words, every conjugate subgroup to it either contains it or is contained in it.
A subgroup of a group is said to be '''conjugate-dense''' if it satisfies the following equivalent conditions:* The union of all conjugates of the subgroup in the group, is the whole group*
A subgroup property "Token0" is termed '''conjugate-join-closed''' if the join of a nonempty collection of conjugate subgroups satisfying "Token0", also satisfies "Token0".
A subgroup of a group is termed '''conjugate-join-closed subnormal''' if the join of any collection of conjugate subgroups to it is a subnormal subgroup.
A subgroup of a group is said to be '''conjugate-large''' if any subgroup all of whose conjugates intersect it trivially must be the trivial subgroup.
A subgroup of a group is termed '''conjugate-permutable''' if it Defining ingredient::permuting subgroups|permutes with every Defining ingredient::conjugate subgroups|conjugate of itself, or equivalently, if its Defining ingredient::product of subgroups|product with every conjugate of it is a subgroup.
Suppose "Token6" are groups.
Suppose "Token6" are subgroups.
A subgroup of a group is said to be '''conjugation-invariantly permutably complemented''' if it satisfies both the conditions below:
Suppose "Token1".
Let "Token0" be a group of prime power order.
A subgroup of a group is termed a '''contracharacteristic subgroup''' if it satisfies the following equivalent conditions: Its defining ingredient::characteristic closure in the whole group equals the whole group.
A subgroup of a group is contranormal if it satisfies the following equivalent conditions:* Its normal closure (i.e. the smallest normal subgroup containing it) in the group is the whole group* There is no proper subgroup of the whole group, containing every conjugate of the given subgroupA subgroup "Token5" of a group "Token0"
This group, denoted "Token1" or "Token2", is defined in the following equivalent ways: It is the automorphism group of a Euclidean lattice|automorphism group of the Leech lattice.
The group, denoted "Token1", is defined as the inner automorphism group of "Token0" (see defining ingredient::Conway group:
This group, denoted "Token0", is defined as the subgroup of defining ingredient::Conway group:Co0
This group, denoted "Token0", is defined as the subgroup of defining ingredient::Conway group:Co0 (the automorphism group of the defining ingredient::Leech lattice) comprising the automorphisms that fix a particular vector of length 6, i.e., the isotropy subgroup of length
A subgroup "Token2" of a finite group "Token0" is termed '''copime automorphism-faithful characteristic''' if every automorphism of "Token0" restricts to an automorphism of "Token2" (i.e., "Token2" is a defining ingredient::characteristic subgroup) and if "Token1" is the kernel of the map:"Token3"defined by restriction, then every prime divisor of the order of "Token1", divides the order of "Token0".
A subgroup of a group is termed a '''coprime automorphism-faithful normal subgroup''' if it is both a coprime automorphism-faithful subgroup and a normal subgroup of the whole group.
A subgroup "Token3" of a finite group "
A subgroup of a finite group is termed a '''coprime automorphism-invariant normal subgroup''' if it is both normal subgroup|normal and coprime automorphism-invariant subgroup|coprime automorphism-invariant: it is invariant under all coprime automorphisms of the whole group.
Suppose "Token0" is a finite group and "Token1" is a subgroup of "Token0".
{{quick phrase|quick phrase::intersection of all conjugates is characteristic, quick phrase::normal core is characteristic}}A subgroup of a group
A subgroup of a group is termed a '''core-free 2-subnormal subgroup''' if it is both a core-free subgroup (i.e., its defining ingredient::normal core is trivial) and a subnormal subgroup.
A subgroup of a group is termed a '''core-free permutable subgroup''' if it is both core-free subgroup|core-free (i.e., its defining ingredient::normal core is trivial) and permutable subgroup|permutable (i.e., quasinormal).
A subgroup of a group is termed core-free if it satisfies the following equivalent conditions:
A subgroup of a group is termed a '''core-free subnormal subgroup''' if it is both a core-free subgroup (i.e., its normal core is trivial) and a subnormal subgroup.
{{quick phrase|quick phrase::countable, quick phrase::countably generated}}A group is said to be '''countable''' or '''denumerable''' or '''enumerable''' if it satisfies the following equivalent conditions: It is countable as a set, i.e., its order of a group|order is a cardinal that is at most the cardinality of the natural numbers.
Suppose "Token0" is a group.
A group is termed a '''Coxeter group''' if it can be equipped with a finite presentation given by the following relations:
A '''cring''' is a set equipped with the following structures:
A subgroup of a group of prime power order (or more generally, of a possibly infinite p-group) is termed a '''critical subgroup''' if it is characteristic subgroup|characteristic in the whole group and satisfies the following three conditions: The subgroup is a Frattini-in-center group: Its Frattini subgroup is contained in its center.
A subgroup "Token4" of "Token0" is said to be a '''cutting subgroup''' if it is a self-normalizing subgroup and satisfies the further conditions (equivalent subject to the subgroup being self-normalizing):
{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined in the following equivalent ways: It is the cyclic group of order "Token0".
This group, denoted "Token0" or "Token2", is defined in the following equivalent ways: It is a cyclic group of order "Token1".
This group is defined as the cyclic group of order "Token2", denoted "Token3", "Token0", or "Token1".{{abelian p-group arithmetic function table|underlying prime = 2|order = 128|order p-log = 7|exponent = 128|exponent p-log = 7|rank = 1}}{{GAP
The '''cyclic group of order sixteen''', denoted "Token2" or sometimes "Token6", is the cyclic group having "Token4" elements.
This group, denoted "Token0", "Token1", "Token3", is defined in the following equivalent ways: It is the direct product of cyclic group:Z9|cyclic group of order nine and cyclic group:Z2|cyclic group of order two.
The cyclic group of order 2 is defined as the unique group of order two.
This group is defined in the following equivalent ways: It is the cyclic group of order "Token0".
This group is defined in the following equivalent ways: It is the cyclic group of order "Token0".
This group is defined as the cyclic group of order "Token2", and is denoted "Token3", "Token0" or "Token1".{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group, denoted "Token1", is defined as the cyclic group of order "Token0".{{abelian p-group arithmetic function table|underlying prime = 3|order = 27|order p-log = 3|exponent = 27|exponent p-log = 3|rank = 1}}{| class="wikitable" border="1"!
The cyclic group of order 3 is defined as the unique group of order 3.
This group, denoted "Token3", "Token1", or "Token2", is the cyclic group of order "Token0".{{abelian p-group arithmetic function table|underlying prime = 2|order = 32|order p-log = 5|exponent = 32|exponent p-log = 5|rank = 1}}{| class="wikitable" border="1"!
This group can be defined in the following equivalent ways: It is the defining ingredient::cyclic group, and specifically defining ingredient::finite cyclic group, of order 36.
The cyclic group of order 4 is defined as a group with four elements "Token5
This group, denoted "Token4", "Token0", or "Token3", is defined in the following equivalent ways:* It is the unique (up to isomorphism) cyclic group of order 40, i.e., it is a group of integers modulo n where "Token1".
This group, denoted "Token0", is defined in the following equivalent ways:* It is the cyclic group of order five.
The cyclic group of order 6 is defined as the group of order six generated by a single element.
This group is defined as the cyclic group of order "Token1".This group is the abelian group of prime power order corresponding to the partition:"Token2"In other words, it is the group "Token0".{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group, denoted "Token2" is defined as the cyclic group of order "Token0", i.e., the group of integers modulo n where "Token1".
The '''cyclic group of order eight''', denoted "Token1", "Token2", or "Token3", is defined as the cyclic group of order eight, i.e., it is the quotient of the group of integers "Token0" by the subgroup "Token4" of multiples of eight.{{abelian p-group arithmetic function table|underlying prime = 2|order = 8|order p-log = 3|exponent = 8|exponent p-log = 3|rank = 1}}{| class="wikitable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the cyclic group of order "Token2".
This group, denoted "Token0", is defined as the cyclic group of order "Token1".{| class="wikitable" border="1"!
A '''cyclic normal subgroup of finite group''' is a cyclic normal subgroup (i.e., a normal subgroup that is also a cyclic group) of a finite group.
A group is said to be a '''cyclic-center group''' if its center is a cyclic group.
A subgroup "Token1" of a group "Token0" is termed '''cyclonormal''' if for any "Token2"
A '''cyclotomic group''' is a group which occurs as the Galois group of a cyclotomic field extension.
A subgroup of a group is said to be a DRC-subgroup if its characteristic closure is the direct product of itself with subgroups isomorphic to it, viz its characteristic closure is a direct power of it, or equivalently, if it is a direct root in its characteristic closure.
{{quick phrase|quick phrase::every subgroup is normal, quick phrase::every cyclic subgroup is normal, quick phrase::normal closure of element is cyclic}}A group is termed a '''Dedekind group''' or '''Hamiltonian group''' if it satisfies the following equivalent conditions:
The '''derived subgroup''' or '''commutator subgroup''' of a group is defined in the following equivalent ways: It is the subgroup generated by all commutators of the whole group.
A subgroup "Token8" of a group "Token0" is termed '''descendant''' if we have subgroups "Token7" of "Token0" for every ordinal "Token9
Suppose "Token0" is a group and "Token4" is an unrestricted external direct product of "Token1" copies of "Token0".
An automorphism "Token5" of a group "Token0" is termed '''diagram-extensible''' if the following holds.
The '''dicyclic group''', also called the '''binary dihedral group''' with parameter "Token32" is defined in the following equivalent ways:* It is given by the presentation:"Token1"Here, "Token3" is the identity element.
This group is defined as the dicyclic group of order "Token2", and hence degree "Token3".
This group is defined as the dicyclic group of order "Token0" (hence, degree "Token2").
The '''dihedral group''' of degree "Token19" and order "Token16", denoted sometimes as sometimes as "Token39" ('''this wiki uses "Token39"'''), sometimes as "Token2", and sometimes as "Token28", is defined in the following equivalent ways:
This group is defined as the dihedral group of order ten.
This group, usually denoted "Token4" (though denoted "Token2" in an alternate convention) is defined in the following equivalent ways:
This group is defined as the dihedral group of order "Token0" or, equivalently, the dihedral group of degree "Token1".{{dihedral 2-group arithmetic function table|order = 128|order p-log = 7|degree = 64|degree p-log = 6}}{{GAP ID|128|161}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
The group is defined as the dihedral groupdefining ingredient::dihedral group|  of degree 7 and hence order 14.
The '''dihedral group''' "Token32", sometimes denoted "Token13", also called the '''dihedral group of order sixteen''' or the '''dihedral group of degree eight''' or the '''dihedral group acting on eight elements''', is a dihedral group defined by the presentation:"Token16".where "Token3" is the identity element.
The group is defined as the dihedral group of order math>18</math> and degree "Token0".
This group is defined in the following equivalent ways: It is the dihedral group of order "Token0".
This group is the dihedral group of order "Token0".{{GAP ID|24|6}}The group can be defined using GAP's GAP:
This group is defined as the dihedral group of order of a group|order "Token0" and degree "Token1".{{dihedral 2-group arithmetic function table|order = 256|order p-log = 8|degree = 128|degree p-log = 7}}{{GAP ID|256|539}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is the dihedral group of degree sixteen and order thirty-two.
This group is defined as the defining ingredient::dihedral group of order "Token1" (or equivalently, the dihedral group of degree "Token3").
The '''dihedral group''' "Token19", sometimes called "Token23", also called the {{dihedral group}} of order eight or ''the dihedral group of degree four'' (since its natural action is on four elements), or sometimes the ''octic group'', is defined by the following presentation of a group|presentation, with "Token5
{{quick phrase|quick phrase::factor in internal direct product, quick phrase::normal with normal complement, quick phrase::has centralizing
A subgroup of a group is termed a '''direct factor of characteristic subgroup''' if it satisfies the following equivalent conditions:
Suppose "Token2" is a subgroup of a group "Token0".
An automorphism of a group is said to be '''direct factor-preserving''' if it takes each direct factor to itself, that is, if every direct factor is invariant under the automorphism.{{fillin}}
A subgroup "Token2" of a group "Token1", the subgroup "Token3" inside the direct power "Token0" (using the external direct product) is a characteristic subgroup of "Token0".{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the defining ingredient::external direct product of defining ingredient::alternating group:A4 and alternating group:A4 (i.e., two copies of the same group).
This group is defined as the defining ingredient::external direct product of defining ingredient::alternating group:A4 and defining ingredient::dihedral group:D8.{{compare and contrast arithmetic functions|order=96}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the defining ingredient::external direct product of defining ingredient::alternating group:A4 and defining ingredient::elementary abelian group:E8.{{compare and contrast arithmetic functions|order = 96}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the defining ingredient::external direct product of defining ingredient::alternating group:A4 and the defining ingredient::quaternion group of order eight.{{compare and contrast arithmetic functions|order = 96}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the defining ingredient::external direct product of defining ingredient::alternating group:A4 and defining ingredient::symmetric group:
This group is defined as the external direct product of the defining ingredient::alternating group:A4|alternating group of degree four "Token0" and the defining ingredient::Klein four-group "Token1" (the elementary abelian group of order 4).
This group is defined in the following equivalent ways: it is the external direct product of alternating group:
This group can be defined as the external direct product of the defining ingredient::alternating group:A4|alternating group of degree 4 and the defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z3|cyclic group of order 3.{{GAP ID|36|11}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group of order 48 is defined as the external direct product of the defining ingredient::alternating group:A4|alternating group of degree four and the cyclic group:Z4|cyclic group of order four.
This group is defined in the following equivalent ways: It is the defining ingredient::external direct product of defining ingredient::alternating group:A4, defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z4, and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z2.
This group is defined as the defining ingredient::external direct product of defining ingredient::alternating group:A4 and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z5.{{compare and contrast arithmetic functions|order = 60}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the defining ingredient::external direct product of defining ingredient::alternating group:A4 and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z8.{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group can be defined in a number of equivalent ways: It is the direct product of the defining ingredient::alternating group:A5|alternating group of degree five and the defining ingredient::symmetric group:S3|symmetric group of degree three.
This group is defined as the external direct product of the following two groups: The group "Token1", i.e., alternating group:A5 (order 60), which is also "Token3" and "Token0".
This group is defined as the defining ingredient::external direct product of defining ingredient::alternating group:A5 and defining ingredient::Klein four-group (which in turn is the direct product of two copies of cyclic group:Z2).
This group is defined in the following equivalent ways: It is the '''full icosahedral group''': it is the group of all rigid symetries of the regular icosahedron, including both orientation-preserving symmetries and orientation-reversing symmetries.
This group is defined as the defining ingredient::external direct product of defining ingredient::alternating group:A5 and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z4.{{compare and contrast arithmetic functions|order = 240}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the defining ingredient::external direct product of defining ingredient::alternating group:A5 (a simple non-abelian group of order 60) and cyclic group:Z7 (a group of order 7).It is the smallest example of a non-solvable group that is a p-solvable group for some prime number "Token1" dividing its order (in this case, "Token0").
This group is defined as the external direct product of defining ingredient::alternating group:A6 and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z2.{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group can be defined in the following equivalent ways: It is the defining ingredient::external direct product of defining ingredient::dihedral group:D12|the dihedral group of order 12 (degree 6) and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z2|the cyclic group of order 2.
This group is defined in the following equivalent ways: It is the defining ingredient::external direct product of defining ingredient::dihedral group:D12 and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z3.
This group is defined as the defining ingredient::external direct product of defining ingredient::dihedral group:D16 and the defining ingredient::Klein four-group.{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the direct product of dihedral group:D16|dihedral group of order sixteen and cyclic group:Z2|cyclic group of order two.{{compare and contrast arithmetic functions|order = 32}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the external direct product of the following two groups: defining ingredient::dihedral group:D16 and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z3.{{GAP ID|48|25}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the external direct product of defining ingredient::dihedral group:D16 and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z4.{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the external direct product of defining ingredient::dihedral group:D32 and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z2.{{GAP ID|64|186}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is constructed as the external direct product of two copies of defining ingredient::dihedral group:D8|the dihedral group of order eight (and degree four).{{compare and contrast arithmetic functions|order = 64}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the external direct product of defining ingredient::dihedral group:D8 and defining ingredient::elementary abelian group:E8.{{GAP ID|64|261}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the uses as intermediate construct::external direct product of defining ingredient::dihedral group:D8 (the dihedral group of degree four and order eight) and defining ingredient::quaternion group (the quaternion group of order eight).{{GAP
This group is defined as the external direct product of the following two groups: defining ingredient::dihedral group:D8 and defining ingredient::symmetric group:S3.{{GAP ID|48|38}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
The group is defined in the following ways: It is the direct product of the dihedral group:D8|dihedral group of order eight and the Klein four-group.
This group is defined in the following ways:
This group is defined as the direct product of the defining ingredient::dihedral group:D8|dihedral group of order eight and the defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z3|cyclic group of order three.{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the direct product of the dihedral group:D8|dihedral group of order eight and cyclic group:Z4|cyclic group of order four.{{quotation|Get more information about groups of the same order at Groups of order 32The list}}{| class="wikitable" border="1"!
This group is defined in the following equivalent ways: It is the defining ingredient::external direct product of defining ingredient::dihedral group:D8, defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z4, and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z2.
This group is defined as the external direct product of defining ingredient::dihedral group:D8 and cyclic group:Z5.{{GAP ID|40|10}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined in the following equivalent ways: It is the external direct product of the following two groups: defining ingredient::dihedral group:D8 and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z6.
This group is defined as the external direct product of defining ingredient::dihedral group:D8 and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z7.{{GAP ID|56|9}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the defining ingredient::external direct product of defining ingredient::dicyclic group:Dic12|the dicyclic group of order 12 and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z2|the cyclic group of order 2.{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the uses as intermediate construct::external direct product of the defining ingredient::elementary abelian group:E16|elementary abelian group of order sixteen and the defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z4|cyclic group of order four.
This group is defined in the following equivalent ways: It is the direct product of the elementary abelian group:E8|elementary abelian group of order eight and the cyclic group:Z3|cyclic group of order three.
This group is defined as the direct product of the elementary abelian group:E8|elementary abelian group of order eight and the cyclic group:Z4|cyclic group of order four.{{abelian
This group is defined as the defining ingredient::external direct product of defining ingredient::M16 and the defining ingredient::Klein four-group.{{compare and contrast arithmetic functions|order=64}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
The '''direct product of M16 and Z2''' is defined as the group obtained as the external direct product of the group M16 and the cyclic group:Z2|cyclic group of order two.{{quotation|View the full list at Groups of order 32The list}}{| class="wikitable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the external direct product of the following two groups: defining ingredient::M16 and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z3.{{GAP ID|48|24}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the defining ingredient::external direct product of the group defining ingredient::M16 (which is a semidirect product of cyclic group:Z8 and cyclic group:Z2 acting via the multiplication by five map) and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z4.{{compare and contrast arithmetic functions|order = 64}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the direct product of the semidirect product of Z9 and Z3 (the unique non-abelian group of order "Token1" and exponent "Token0") and cyclic group:
This group is defined as the external direct product of defining ingredient::M32 and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z2.
This group is defined as the external direct product of the following two groups: defining ingredient::generalized quaternion group:Q16 and defining ingredient::Klein four-group.
This group is defined as the external direct product of the defining ingredient::generalized quaternion group:Q16 and cyclic group:Z2.{{compare and contrast arithmetic functions|order=32}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the external direct product of the following two groups: defining ingredient::generalized quaternion group:Q16 and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z3.{{GAP ID|48|27}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group can be defined as the defining ingredient::external direct product of defining ingredient::generalized quaternion group:Q16 and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z4.{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the external direct product of the two following two groups: defining ingredient::generalized quaternion group:Q32 and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z2.{{GAP ID|64|188}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group can be defined as the uses as intermediate construct::external direct product of two copies of the defining ingredient::quaternion group (which is a group of order eight).{{GAP ID|64|239}}The group can be constructed using the GAP:SmallGroup|SmallGroup function for the quaternion group and the GAP:DirectProduct|DirectProduct
This group is defined as an external direct product of the following two groups: defining ingredient::quaternion group and defining ingredient::symmetric group:S3.{{GAP ID|48|40}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
The group is the direct product of the quaternion group (of order eight) and the Klein four-group.{| class="wikitable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the direct product of the defining ingredient::quaternion group (of order eight) and the defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z3|cyclic group of order three.{| class="wikitable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the direct product of the quaternion group (of order eight) and the cyclic group:Z4|cyclic group of order four.{{quotation|Get more information about groups of the same order at Groups of order 32The list}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the external direct product of the following two groups: the defining ingredient::quaternion group of order "Token0" and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z5.{{GAP ID|40|11}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined in the following equivalent ways (equivalent up to isomorphism): It is the direct product of the defining ingredient::symmetric group:S3|symmetric group of degree three and the defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z3|cyclic group of order three.
This group is defined as the external direct product of the defining ingredient::symmetric group:S3|symmetric group of degree
This group is defined as the defining ingredient::external direct product of defining ingredient::symmetric group:S4 and defining ingredient::Klein four-group.{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined in a number of equivalent ways: It is the '''full octahedral group''': the group of all rigid symmetries (both orientation-preserving and orientation-reversing) of the regular octahedron.
This group is defined as the defining ingredient::external direct product of defining ingredient::symmetric group:S4 and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z3.{{compare and contrast arithmetic functions|order
This group is defined as the external direct product of symmetric group:S4 and cyclic group:Z4.{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This is defined as the defining ingredient::external direct product of defining ingredient::symmetric group:S4 and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z5.{{compare and contrast arithmetic functions|order =
This group is defined in the following equivalent ways: It is the direct product of the defining ingredient::symmetric group:S5|symmetric group of degree five and the defining ingredient::Klein four-group.
This group is defined in the following equivalent ways: It is the direct product of the defining ingredient::symmetric group:S5|symmetric group of degree five and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z2|cyclic group of order two.
This group is defined as the external direct product of the following two groups: defining ingredient::semidihedral group:SD16 and defining ingredient::Klein four-group.{{GAP ID|64|251}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the direct product of the semidihedral group:SD16|semidihedral group of order sixteen and cyclic group:Z2|the cyclic group of order two.{{compare and contrast arithmetic functions|order=32}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the external direct product of the following two groups: defining ingredient::semidihedral group:SD16 and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z3.{{GAP ID|48|26}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the external direct product of defining ingredient::semidihedral group:SD16 and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z4.{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the external direct product of the following two groups: defining ingredient::semidihedral group:SD32 and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z2.{{GAP ID|64|187}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the defining ingredient::external direct product of defining ingredient::special linear group:SL(2,3) and the defining ingredient::Klein four-group.
This group is defined as the external direct product of special linear group:SL(2,3) (the special linear group of degree two over field:F3, the field of three elements) and cyclic group:Z2 (the cyclic group of two elements).
This group is defined as the defining ingredient::external direct product of defining ingredient::special linear group:SL(2,3) and cyclic group:Z3.{{compare and contrast arithmetic functions|order
This group is defined as the defining ingredient::external direct product of defining ingredient::special linear group:SL(2,3) and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z4.{{compare and contrast arithmetic functions|order=96}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the external direct product of the following two groups: The group "Token3", i.e., special linear group:SL(2,5) (order 120), which is also the double cover of alternating group:A5|double cover of alternating group:A5.
This group is defined as the external direct product of the following two groups:
This group is defined as the defining ingredient::external direct product of defining ingredient::special linear group:SL(2,5) and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z2.{{compare and contrast arithmetic functions|order = 240}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the external direct product of the following two groups: defining ingredient::central product of D8 and Z4 (GAP ID: (16,13)) and defining ingredient::Klein four-group.{{GAP ID|64|263}}
This group is defined as the defining ingredient::external direct product of the defining ingredient::central product of D8 and Z4 (which is SmallGroup(16,13)) and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z2.{| class="wikitable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the external direct product of defining ingredient::central product of D8 and Z4 (GAP ID:(16,13)) and cyclic group:Z4.{{GAP ID|64|198}}
This group is defined as the external direct product of defining ingredient::SmallGroup(16,3) and defining ingredient::Klein four-group.{{GAP ID|64|193}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the external direct product of SmallGroup(16,3) and cyclic group:Z2|the cyclic group of order two.{| class="wikitable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the external direct product of defining ingredient::SmallGroup(16,3) and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z3.{{GAP ID|48|21}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the external direct product of defining ingredient::SmallGroup(16,3) and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z4.{{GAP ID|64|58}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the external direct product of defining ingredient::nontrivial semidirect product of Z4 and Z4 (GAP ID: (16,4)) and defining ingredient::Klein four-group.{{GAP ID|64|194}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the external direct product of SmallGroup(16,4) and cyclic group:Z2|the cyclic group of order two.{| class="wikitable" border="1"!
This group is defined as an external direct product of defining ingredient::nontrivial semidirect product of Z4 and Z4 (GAP ID:(16,4)) and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z4.{{GAP ID|64|59}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the external direct product of the following two groups: defining ingredient::nontrivial semidirect product of Z4 and Z8 and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z2.{{GAP ID|64|103}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined as an external direct product of the following two schools: defining ingredient::semidirect product of Z8 and Z4 of semidihedral type (GAP ID: (32,13)) and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z2.{{GAP ID|64|106}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the external direct product of the following two groups: defining ingredient::semidirect product of Z8 and Z4 of dihedral type (GAP ID: (32,14)) and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z2.{{GAP ID|64|107}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the external direct product of defining ingredient::SmallGroup(32,2) and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z2.{{GAP ID|64|56}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the external direct product of defining ingredient::SmallGroup(32,24) and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z2.{{GAP ID|64|195}}
This group is defined as the external direct product of the following two groups: defining ingredient::SmallGroup(32,27) and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z2.{{GAP ID|64|202}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the external direct product of the following two groups: defining ingredient::SmallGroup(32,33) and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z2.{{GAP ID|64|209}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the external direct product of the following two groups: defining ingredient::semidirect product of Z8 and Z4 of M-type (GAP ID:(32,4)) and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z2.
This group is defined as the external direct product of the following two groups: defining ingredient::inner holomorph of D8 (GAP ID: (32,49), also the extraspecial group of order "Token0" and "+" type) and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z2.{{GAP ID|64|264}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the external direct product of the following two groups: defining ingredient::central product of D8 and Q8, also the extraspecial group of "-" type and order "Token0" (GAP ID: (32,50)) and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z2.{{GAP ID|64|265}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the direct product of the group of integers (which is, up to isomorphism, the unique infinite cyclic group) and the cyclic group:Z2|cyclic group of order two.
This group is defined in the following equivalent ways: It is the direct product of the cyclic group:Z10|cyclic group of order ten and the cyclic group:Z2|cyclic group of order two.
This group is defined as the uses as intermediate construct::external direct product of the defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z16|cyclic group of order 16 and defining ingredient::Klein four-group (i.e., the elementary abelian group of order four).
This group is defined as the direct product of cyclic group:Z16|the cyclic group of order sixteen and cyclic group:Z2|the cyclic group of order two.{{abelian p-group arithmetic function table|underlying prime = 2|order = 32|order p-log = 5|exponent = 16|exponent p-log = 4|rank = 2}}{{GAP
This group can be defined as the uses as intermediate construct::external direct product of the defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z16|cyclic group of order sixteen and the defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z4|cyclic group of order four.
This group is defined in the following equivalent ways: It is the external direct product of the defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z27|cyclic group of order 27 and the defining ingredient::elementary abelian group:E9|elementary abelian group of order 9.
This group is defined as the direct product of cyclic group:Z27|the cyclic group of order 27 and cyclic group:Z3|the cyclic group of order three.{{abelian p-group arithmetic function table|underlying prime = 3|order = 81|order p-log = 4|exponent = 27|exponent p-log = 3|rank = 2}}{| class="wikitable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the external direct product of the cyclic group:Z27|cyclic group of order 27 and the cyclic group:Z9|cyclic group of order 9.
This group is defined as the uses as intermediate construct::external direct product of the defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z32|cyclic group of order 32 and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z2|cyclic group of order 2.This group is the abelian group of prime power order corresponding to the partition:"Token2"In other words, it is the group "Token0".{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group can be defined in a number of equivalent ways:
The '''direct product of Z4 and Z2''' is an abelian group of order eight obtained as the external direct product of defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z4 and defining ingredient::cyclic group:
This group, denoted "Token3" or "Token1" is defined in the following equivalent ways:* It is a homocyclic group of order sixteen and exponent four.
This group is defined as the external direct product of two copies of defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z4 and one copy of the defining ingredient::Klein four-group.
This group is obtained as the external direct product of two copies of cyclic group:Z4 and one copy of cyclic group:Z2.{{abelian p-group arithmetic function table|underlying prime = 2|order = 32|order p-log = 5|exponent = 4|exponent p-log = 2|rank = 3}}{{GAP ID|32|21}}
This group is defined in the following equivalent ways: It is the external direct product of three copies of defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z4.
This group is defined in the following equivalent ways: It is the direct product of the cyclic group:Z6|cyclic group of order six and cyclic group:Z2|cyclic group of order two.
This group is defined in the following equivalent ways: It is the direct product of the cyclic group:Z6|cyclic group of order six and the cyclic group:Z3|cyclic group of order three.
This group is defined as the direct product of the cyclic group:Z6|cyclic group of order six and the cyclic group:Z4|cyclic group of order four.{{GAP ID|24|9}}The group can be constructed using GAP's GAP:DirectProduct|DirectProduct and GAP:CyclicGroup|CyclicGroup functions:<tt>DirectProduct(CyclicGroup(6),CyclicGroup(4))</tt>
This group is defined as the defining ingredient::external direct product of defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z8 and defining ingredient::dihedral group:D8.{{compare and contrast arithmetic functions|order = 64}}{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the uses as intermediate construct::external direct product of the defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z8|cyclic group of order eight and the defining ingredient::elementary abelian group:E8|elementary abelian group of order eight.
This group is defined as the direct product of cyclic group:Z8|the cyclic group of order eight and the Klein four-group.{{abelian p-group arithmetic function table|underlying prime = 2|order = 32|order p-log = 5|exponent
This group, denoted "Token1" or "Token5", can be defined in the following equivalent ways:* It is the external direct product of the cyclic group:Z8|cyclic group of order eight (denoted "Token2" or "Token4") and the cyclic group:Z2|cyclic group of order two (denoted "Token0" or "Token3").
This group is the direct product of the cyclic group:Z8|cyclic group of order eight and cyclic group:Z4|cyclic group of order four.{{abelian p-group arithmetic function table|underlying prime = 2|order = 32|order p-log = 5|exponent = 8|exponent p-log = 3|rank = 2}}{| class="wikitable" border="1"!
This group is a finite abelian group of order "Token3" given as the direct product of cyclic group:Z8, cyclic group:Z4, and Klein four-group.
This group can be defined in the following equivalent ways: It is the external direct product of defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z8, defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z4, and defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z2.
This group can be defined as the uses as intermediate construct::external direct product of two copies of the cyclic group:Z8|cyclic group of order eight.
The group is defined as the external direct product of the cyclic group:Z81|cyclic group of order 81 and the cyclic group:Z3|cyclic group of order 3.{| class="sortable" border="1"!
The group is defined in the following equivalent ways: It is the external direct product of the defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z9|cyclic group of order 9 and the defining ingredient::elementary abelian group:E27|elementary abelian group of order 27, i.e., "Token1".
This group is defined as the direct product of the cyclic group:Z9|cyclic group of order 9 and elementary abelian group:E9|elementary abelian group of order 9.
This group is defined as the direct product of cyclic group:Z9|the cyclic group of order 9 and cyclic group:Z3|the cyclic group of order 3.{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the direct product of two copies of cyclic group:Z9|the cyclic group of order nine.{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group is defined as the external direct product of two copies of the defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z9|cyclic group of order 9 and one copy of the defining ingredient::cyclic group:Z3|cyclic group of order 3.
A group is termed a '''direct product of finite groups''' if it is isomorphic to the defining ingredient::external direct product of a collection of (possibly infinitely many) finite groups.{| class="sortable" border="1"!
This group can be defined in the following equivalent ways: It is the external direct product of the group of rational numbers "Token3" and the group of rational numbers modulo integers "Token2".
